specs/012-right-now-cancelled/plan.md, before:


# Implementation Plan: Exclude Cancelled Lessons from Conflict Detection in Day Calendar

**Branch**: `012-right-now-cancelled` | **Date**: 2025-10-07 | **Spec**: /Users/muhammadnurislomtukhtamishhoji-zoda/Development/schedule-website/specs/012-right-now-cancelled/spec.md
**Input**: Feature specification from `/specs/012-right-now-cancelled/spec.md`

## Execution Flow (/plan command scope)
```
1. Load feature spec from Input path
   → If not found: ERROR "No feature spec at {path}"
2. Fill Technical Context (scan for NEEDS CLARIFICATION)
   → Detect Project Type from file system structure or context (web=frontend+backend, mobile=app+api)
   → Set Structure Decision based on project type
3. Fill the Constitution Check section based on the content of the constitution document.
4. Evaluate Constitution Check section below
   → If violations exist: Document in Complexity Tracking
   → If no justification possible: ERROR "Simplify approach first"
   → Update Progress Tracking: Initial Constitution Check
5. Execute Phase 0 → research.md
   → If NEEDS CLARIFICATION remain: ERROR "Resolve unknowns"
6. Execute Phase 1 → contracts, data-model.md, quickstart.md, agent-specific template file (e.g., `CLAUDE.md` for Claude Code, `.github/copilot-instructions.md` for GitHub Copilot, `GEMINI.md` for Gemini CLI, `QWEN.md` for Qwen Code, or `AGENTS.md` for all other agents).
7. Re-evaluate Constitution Check section
   → If new violations: Refactor design, return to Phase 1
   → Update Progress Tracking: Post-Design Constitution Check
8. Plan Phase 2 → Describe task generation approach (DO NOT create tasks.md)
9. STOP - Ready for /tasks command
```

**IMPORTANT**: The /plan command STOPS at step 7. Phases 2-4 are executed by other commands:
- Phase 2: /tasks command creates tasks.md
- Phase 3-4: Implementation execution (manual or via tools)

## Summary
Cancelled lessons must not create or contribute to conflict indicators in the Day Calendar. The “キャンセル授業を表示” toggle only controls visibility of cancelled lessons; conflict logic must consider only active lessons. Technical approach: adjust Day Calendar overlap/conflict computation to ignore lessons where the cancellation flag is set, while leaving visibility controlled by the existing toggle.

## Technical Context
**Language/Version**: TypeScript (strict), React 18, Next.js App Router  
**Primary Dependencies**: Next.js, React, Tailwind CSS v4, Prisma (backend), Bun runtime  
**Storage**: PostgreSQL (via Prisma; no schema changes required)  
**Testing**: Vitest + React Testing Library (preferred per repo guidelines)  
**Target Platform**: Web (Next.js)  
**Project Type**: Web application (single project)  
**Performance Goals**: No material regression in calendar rendering; conflict computation remains smooth at typical day loads  
**Constraints**: Toggle affects visibility only; conflict logic excludes cancelled lessons consistently  
**Scale/Scope**: Day view with potentially many sessions; computation is in-memory on client for the current day only

## Constitution Check
*GATE: Must pass before Phase 0 research. Re-check after Phase 1 design.*

- Complies with simplicity: minimal UI logic change, no new APIs.
- Follows project standards: Bun, TypeScript strict, Next.js; tests planned.
- Security/Privacy unchanged: no data shape or permission changes.
- Observability unaffected: no backend changes.

Result: PASS

## Project Structure

### Documentation (this feature)
```
specs/[###-feature]/
├── plan.md              # This file (/plan command output)
├── research.md          # Phase 0 output (/plan command)
├── data-model.md        # Phase 1 output (/plan command)
├── quickstart.md        # Phase 1 output (/plan command)
├── contracts/           # Phase 1 output (/plan command)
└── tasks.md             # Phase 2 output (/tasks command - NOT created by /plan)
```

### Source Code (repository root)
<!--
  ACTION REQUIRED: Replace the placeholder tree below with the concrete layout
  for this feature. Delete unused options and expand the chosen structure with
  real paths (e.g., apps/admin, packages/something). The delivered plan must
  not include Option labels.
-->
```
# [REMOVE IF UNUSED] Option 1: Single project (DEFAULT)
src/
├── models/
├── services/
├── cli/
└── lib/

tests/
├── contract/
├── integration/
└── unit/

# [REMOVE IF UNUSED] Option 2: Web application (when "frontend" + "backend" detected)
backend/
├── src/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── services/
│   └── api/
└── tests/

frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   ├── pages/
│   └── services/
└── tests/

# [REMOVE IF UNUSED] Option 3: Mobile + API (when "iOS/Android" detected)
api/
└── [same as backend above]

ios/ or android/
└── [platform-specific structure: feature modules, UI flows, platform tests]
```

**Structure Decision**: [Document the selected structure and reference the real
directories captured above]

Selected Structure
```
src/
├── app/
├── components/
│   └── admin-schedule/
│       └── DayCalendar/
│           ├── admin-calendar-day.tsx
│           ├── day-calendar.tsx
│           ├── lesson-card.tsx
│           └── lesson-dialog.tsx
├── hooks/
├── lib/
└── services/

tests/
├── integration/
└── unit/
```

## Phase 0: Outline & Research
1. **Extract unknowns from Technical Context** above:
   - For each NEEDS CLARIFICATION → research task
   - For each dependency → best practices task
   - For each integration → patterns task

2. **Generate and dispatch research agents**:
   ```
   For each unknown in Technical Context:
     Task: "Research {unknown} for {feature context}"
   For each technology choice:
     Task: "Find best practices for {tech} in {domain}"
   ```

3. **Consolidate findings** in `research.md` using format:
   - Decision: [what was chosen]
   - Rationale: [why chosen]
   - Alternatives considered: [what else evaluated]

**Output**: research.md with all NEEDS CLARIFICATION resolved

## Phase 1: Design & Contracts
*Prerequisites: research.md complete*

1. **Extract entities from feature spec** → `data-model.md`:
   - Entity name, fields, relationships
   - Validation rules from requirements
   - State transitions if applicable

2. **Generate API contracts** from functional requirements:
   - For each user action → endpoint
   - Use standard REST/GraphQL patterns
   - Output OpenAPI/GraphQL schema to `/contracts/`

3. **Generate contract tests** from contracts:
   - One test file per endpoint
   - Assert request/response schemas
   - Tests must fail (no implementation yet)

4. **Extract test scenarios** from user stories:
   - Each story → integration test scenario
   - Quickstart test = story validation steps

5. **Update agent file incrementally** (O(1) operation):
   - Run `.specify/scripts/bash/update-agent-context.sh codex`
     **IMPORTANT**: Execute it exactly as specified above. Do not add or remove any arguments.
   - If exists: Add only NEW tech from current plan
   - Preserve manual additions between markers
   - Update recent changes (keep last 3)
   - Keep under 150 lines for token efficiency
   - Output to repository root

**Output**: data-model.md, /contracts/*, failing tests, quickstart.md, agent-specific file

## Phase 2: Task Planning Approach
*This section describes what the /tasks command will do - DO NOT execute during /plan*

**Task Generation Strategy**:
- Load `.specify/templates/tasks-template.md` as base
- Generate tasks from Phase 1 design docs (contracts, data model, quickstart)
- Each contract → contract test task [P]
- Each entity → model creation task [P] 
- Each user story → integration test task
- Implementation tasks to make tests pass

**Ordering Strategy**:
- TDD order: Tests before implementation 
- Dependency order: Models before services before UI
- Mark [P] for parallel execution (independent files)

**Estimated Output**: 25-30 numbered, ordered tasks in tasks.md

**IMPORTANT**: This phase is executed by the /tasks command, NOT by /plan

## Phase 3+: Future Implementation
*These phases are beyond the scope of the /plan command*

**Phase 3**: Task execution (/tasks command creates tasks.md)  
**Phase 4**: Implementation (execute tasks.md following constitutional principles)  
**Phase 5**: Validation (run tests, execute quickstart.md, performance validation)

## Complexity Tracking
*Fill ONLY if Constitution Check has violations that must be justified*

| Violation | Why Needed | Simpler Alternative Rejected Because |
|-----------|------------|-------------------------------------|
| [e.g., 4th project] | [current need] | [why 3 projects insufficient] |
| [e.g., Repository pattern] | [specific problem] | [why direct DB access insufficient] |


## Progress Tracking
*This checklist is updated during execution flow*

**Phase Status**:
- [x] Phase 0: Research complete (/plan command)
- [x] Phase 1: Design complete (/plan command)
- [x] Phase 2: Task planning complete (/plan command - describe approach only)
- [ ] Phase 3: Tasks generated (/tasks command)
- [ ] Phase 4: Implementation complete
- [ ] Phase 5: Validation passed

**Gate Status**:
- [x] Initial Constitution Check: PASS
- [x] Post-Design Constitution Check: PASS
- [x] All NEEDS CLARIFICATION resolved
- [x] Complexity deviations documented

---
*Based on Constitution v2.1.1 - See `/memory/constitution.md`*

Commit message:

main: make cancelled lessons click-through and refine conflict handling
- update plan and tasks to clarify ux and mark t009/t018 complete
- add boothAnyOverlapMap in day-calendar and pass hasAnyBoothOverlap to lesson cards
- make cancelled lesson cards always pointer-events none and keep conflict visuals derived from overlap props; update memo equality
- preserve visibility toggle behavior while conflicts ignore cancelled sessions

specs/012-right-now-cancelled/plan.md, after:


# Implementation Plan: Exclude Cancelled Lessons from Conflict Detection in Day Calendar

**Branch**: `012-right-now-cancelled` | **Date**: 2025-10-07 | **Spec**: /Users/muhammadnurislomtukhtamishhoji-zoda/Development/schedule-website/specs/012-right-now-cancelled/spec.md
**Input**: Feature specification from `/specs/012-right-now-cancelled/spec.md`

## Execution Flow (/plan command scope)
```
1. Load feature spec from Input path
   → If not found: ERROR "No feature spec at {path}"
2. Fill Technical Context (scan for NEEDS CLARIFICATION)
   → Detect Project Type from file system structure or context (web=frontend+backend, mobile=app+api)
   → Set Structure Decision based on project type
3. Fill the Constitution Check section based on the content of the constitution document.
4. Evaluate Constitution Check section below
   → If violations exist: Document in Complexity Tracking
   → If no justification possible: ERROR "Simplify approach first"
   → Update Progress Tracking: Initial Constitution Check
5. Execute Phase 0 → research.md
   → If NEEDS CLARIFICATION remain: ERROR "Resolve unknowns"
6. Execute Phase 1 → contracts, data-model.md, quickstart.md, agent-specific template file (e.g., `CLAUDE.md` for Claude Code, `.github/copilot-instructions.md` for GitHub Copilot, `GEMINI.md` for Gemini CLI, `QWEN.md` for Qwen Code, or `AGENTS.md` for all other agents).
7. Re-evaluate Constitution Check section
   → If new violations: Refactor design, return to Phase 1
   → Update Progress Tracking: Post-Design Constitution Check
8. Plan Phase 2 → Describe task generation approach (DO NOT create tasks.md)
9. STOP - Ready for /tasks command
```

**IMPORTANT**: The /plan command STOPS at step 7. Phases 2-4 are executed by other commands:
- Phase 2: /tasks command creates tasks.md
- Phase 3-4: Implementation execution (manual or via tools)

## Summary
Cancelled lessons must not create or contribute to conflict indicators in the Day Calendar. The “キャンセル授業を表示” toggle only controls visibility of cancelled lessons; conflict logic must consider only active lessons. UX requirement refinement: cancelled lessons must always be "click‑through" so users can create new sessions on top of them or in the remaining uncovered portion when a partial replacement has already been created. Implementation: cancelled lesson cards use `pointer-events: none` unconditionally so uncovered regions remain interactive; any overlapping active lesson remains fully interactive on top.

## Technical Context
**Language/Version**: TypeScript (strict), React 18, Next.js App Router  
**Primary Dependencies**: Next.js, React, Tailwind CSS v4, Prisma (backend), Bun runtime  
**Storage**: PostgreSQL (via Prisma; no schema changes required)  
**Testing**: Vitest + React Testing Library (preferred per repo guidelines)  
**Target Platform**: Web (Next.js)  
**Project Type**: Web application (single project)  
**Performance Goals**: No material regression in calendar rendering; conflict computation remains smooth at typical day loads  
**Constraints**: Toggle affects visibility only; conflict logic excludes cancelled lessons consistently  
**Scale/Scope**: Day view with potentially many sessions; computation is in-memory on client for the current day only

## Constitution Check
*GATE: Must pass before Phase 0 research. Re-check after Phase 1 design.*

- Complies with simplicity: minimal UI logic change, no new APIs.
- Follows project standards: Bun, TypeScript strict, Next.js; tests planned.
- Security/Privacy unchanged: no data shape or permission changes.
- Observability unaffected: no backend changes.

Result: PASS

## Project Structure

### Documentation (this feature)
```
specs/[###-feature]/
├── plan.md              # This file (/plan command output)
├── research.md          # Phase 0 output (/plan command)
├── data-model.md        # Phase 1 output (/plan command)
├── quickstart.md        # Phase 1 output (/plan command)
├── contracts/           # Phase 1 output (/plan command)
└── tasks.md             # Phase 2 output (/tasks command - NOT created by /plan)
```

### Source Code (repository root)
<!--
  ACTION REQUIRED: Replace the placeholder tree below with the concrete layout
  for this feature. Delete unused options and expand the chosen structure with
  real paths (e.g., apps/admin, packages/something). The delivered plan must
  not include Option labels.
-->
```
# [REMOVE IF UNUSED] Option 1: Single project (DEFAULT)
src/
├── models/
├── services/
├── cli/
└── lib/

tests/
├── contract/
├── integration/
└── unit/

# [REMOVE IF UNUSED] Option 2: Web application (when "frontend" + "backend" detected)
backend/
├── src/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── services/
│   └── api/
└── tests/

frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   ├── pages/
│   └── services/
└── tests/

# [REMOVE IF UNUSED] Option 3: Mobile + API (when "iOS/Android" detected)
api/
└── [same as backend above]

ios/ or android/
└── [platform-specific structure: feature modules, UI flows, platform tests]
```

**Structure Decision**: [Document the selected structure and reference the real
directories captured above]

Selected Structure
```
src/
├── app/
├── components/
│   └── admin-schedule/
│       └── DayCalendar/
│           ├── admin-calendar-day.tsx
│           ├── day-calendar.tsx
│           ├── lesson-card.tsx
│           └── lesson-dialog.tsx
├── hooks/
├── lib/
└── services/

tests/
├── integration/
└── unit/
```

## Phase 0: Outline & Research
1. **Extract unknowns from Technical Context** above:
   - For each NEEDS CLARIFICATION → research task
   - For each dependency → best practices task
   - For each integration → patterns task

2. **Generate and dispatch research agents**:
   ```
   For each unknown in Technical Context:
     Task: "Research {unknown} for {feature context}"
   For each technology choice:
     Task: "Find best practices for {tech} in {domain}"
   ```

3. **Consolidate findings** in `research.md` using format:
   - Decision: [what was chosen]
   - Rationale: [why chosen]
   - Alternatives considered: [what else evaluated]

**Output**: research.md with all NEEDS CLARIFICATION resolved

## Phase 1: Design & Contracts
*Prerequisites: research.md complete*

1. **Extract entities from feature spec** → `data-model.md`:
   - Entity name, fields, relationships
   - Validation rules from requirements
   - State transitions if applicable

2. **Generate API contracts** from functional requirements:
   - For each user action → endpoint
   - Use standard REST/GraphQL patterns
   - Output OpenAPI/GraphQL schema to `/contracts/`

3. **Generate contract tests** from contracts:
   - One test file per endpoint
   - Assert request/response schemas
   - Tests must fail (no implementation yet)

4. **Extract test scenarios** from user stories:
   - Each story → integration test scenario
   - Quickstart test = story validation steps

5. **Update agent file incrementally** (O(1) operation):
   - Run `.specify/scripts/bash/update-agent-context.sh codex`
     **IMPORTANT**: Execute it exactly as specified above. Do not add or remove any arguments.
   - If exists: Add only NEW tech from current plan
   - Preserve manual additions between markers
   - Update recent changes (keep last 3)
   - Keep under 150 lines for token efficiency
   - Output to repository root

**Output**: data-model.md, /contracts/*, failing tests, quickstart.md, agent-specific file

## Phase 2: Task Planning Approach
*This section describes what the /tasks command will do - DO NOT execute during /plan*

**Task Generation Strategy**:
- Load `.specify/templates/tasks-template.md` as base
- Generate tasks from Phase 1 design docs (contracts, data model, quickstart)
- Each contract → contract test task [P]
- Each entity → model creation task [P] 
- Each user story → integration test task
- Implementation tasks to make tests pass

**Ordering Strategy**:
- TDD order: Tests before implementation 
- Dependency order: Models before services before UI
- Mark [P] for parallel execution (independent files)

**Estimated Output**: 25-30 numbered, ordered tasks in tasks.md

**IMPORTANT**: This phase is executed by the /tasks command, NOT by /plan

## Phase 3+: Future Implementation
*These phases are beyond the scope of the /plan command*

**Phase 3**: Task execution (/tasks command creates tasks.md)  
**Phase 4**: Implementation (execute tasks.md following constitutional principles)  
**Phase 5**: Validation (run tests, execute quickstart.md, performance validation)

## Complexity Tracking
*Fill ONLY if Constitution Check has violations that must be justified*

| Violation | Why Needed | Simpler Alternative Rejected Because |
|-----------|------------|-------------------------------------|
| [e.g., 4th project] | [current need] | [why 3 projects insufficient] |
| [e.g., Repository pattern] | [specific problem] | [why direct DB access insufficient] |


## Progress Tracking
*This checklist is updated during execution flow*

**Phase Status**:
- [x] Phase 0: Research complete (/plan command)
- [x] Phase 1: Design complete (/plan command)
- [x] Phase 2: Task planning complete (/plan command - describe approach only)
- [ ] Phase 3: Tasks generated (/tasks command)
- [ ] Phase 4: Implementation complete
- [ ] Phase 5: Validation passed

**Gate Status**:
- [x] Initial Constitution Check: PASS
- [x] Post-Design Constitution Check: PASS
- [x] All NEEDS CLARIFICATION resolved
- [x] Complexity deviations documented

---
*Based on Constitution v2.1.1 - See `/memory/constitution.md`*
